well howdy there internet people its Bo
again so tonight I start off by reading
a telegram to kind of lay the scene sent
by general miles back to DC the
difficult Indian problem cannot be
solved permanently at this end of the
line
it requires the fulfillment of Congress
of the treaty obligations that the
Indians were entreated and coerced and
signing they signed away a valuable
portion of the reservation and it is now
occupied by white people for which they
have received nothing they understood
that ample provision would be made for
their support instead their supplies
have been reduced and much of the time
they've been living on half or
two-thirds rations so that's where
they're at basically this is American
history this is a perfect example of the
u.s. government dealing with natives
throughout all of American history so
leading up to Wounded Knee the US had
continued to seize native land the Bison
are gone miners and settlers keep coming
onto their land even after giving up yet
another chunk treaties weren't honored
they're never honored at this time the
Ghost Dance starts and this happens
because guy has a vision
Jesus comes back as a native when he
does all the white people are gone and
their grandfather their ancestors will
come back and lead them to hunting
grounds that are plentiful it's a dance
it's a religious thing but the dance
scared the settlers and it no it was
they didn't care to know what it was
scary they contacted the authorities now
the military they have been down this
road before so they wanted to send them
Buffalo Bill who was friends with
Sitting Bull the idea was to kind of
take some of the Chiefs into custody
find out what was going on maybe break
it up if it was going to be a rebellion
well a guy from Standing Rock Agency
Standing Rock overrode the military sent
in forty Native cops to go arrest
Sitting Bull Sitting Bull a Sitting Bull
he didn't really just comply they used
force too much force
so much force that one of the natives
watching fired hit one of the cops who
in turn pulled the trigger on his pistol
and shot Sitting Bull then another cop
finished him shot him in the head
fearful of reprisal 'he's a large group
of those natives took off went to join
up with another leader named spotted elk
they were headed to Pine Ridge when
seventh calves surrounded their camp
they set up machine guns and their
Scouts and interpreters were telling
them do not try to disarm them don't try
to disarm them said it over and over
they ignored it and they tried to disarm
them now actual chain of events is a
little fuzzy there the weather's of
history but the most commonly held chain
of events is that one guy is doing a
ghost dance while the soldiers some of
the soldiers are down trying to disarm
everybody they approach a deaf native
who cannot can't hear him doesn't know
what's going on they grab him by both
arms as a second native tries to
intervene and his rifle goes off the
native the definite is rifle goes off
that was it and then over the next hour
those machine guns went to work on
everybody
friendly fire was a major factor in this
battle at the end of the day 150 to 350
natives gone women children didn't
matter they were buried in a mass grave
the army for its part awarded 20 medals
of Honor the highest commendation
that a soldier can get 20 just see you
know any time you see a large number
just an inordinate amount of decorations
being bestowed for a single incident
it's a little weird to begin with no
it's a cover-up that's what it is
so that's it that's that's Wounded Knee
ignorance arrogance supremacy fear of
the other it's what caused it and it's a
perfect example and a perfect teaching
tool to explain today's u.s. foreign
policy told you this because it's Native
American Heritage Month but their
heritage is our heritage it's just the
part we don't like to talk about because
most of it is like this it's not God but
it could at least serve some good if we
looked at this and evaluated this and
looked at it in terms of our foreign
policy how we take and exploit and give
nothing back except to the leadership
who's in our pocket except to the
military the native cops because you
always had the Sitting Bull for every
Sitting Bull there was some native who
was willing to play along with the
military
it is our foreign policy it's how it
works today and it's based on the same
things
ignorance arrogance supremacy and fear
for the other
we could learn a lot from our Native
American heritage
anyway it's just a fault
y'all have a good night